Q1. What is the total number of employees in the company?
sol.
-Create a new Card Visualization: From the visualization pane, select the "Card" visualization type.
Add empID to the Field: Drag the 'EmpID' field from your dataset's Fields list and drop it into the "Fields"  
Click on the 'EmpID' field within the "Fields" well of the card visualization.
From the dropdown menu that appears, choose "Count (Distinct)" to count each unique employee ID.

Q2. What is the total number of employees who have left the company (attrition)?
 Create an "Attrition Count" Column in Power Query
In Power Query, you can create a new column to represent attrition status as 1 for "Yes" and 0 for "No`.

This will add a new column to your dataset indicating whether an employee has left the company.

 Create a DAX Measure to Calculate Total Attrition
Once the "Attrition Count" column is added, you can create a DAX measure to calculate the total number of employees who have left the company.

In Power BI Desktop, go to the Modeling tab and click on New Measure.
Total Attrition = SUM('HR Analysis'[Attrition Count])

Q3.What is the company’s overall attrition rate?
Total Attrition (Employees Who Left) follow the step same Q2 and then create DEX formula for Attrition Rate 
Total EmployeeCount step same Q1 follows

Attrition_Rate = SUM(HR_Analytics[AttritionCount])/SUM(HR_Analytics[EmployeeCount])

Q4.What is the count of attrition among male and female employees?
    "Create a Treemap in Power BI where:

Category: Gender (e.g., Male, Female)
Values: Age Group (e.g., 20-29, 30-39)
Count: Number of employees in each gender and age group combination

Q5.. What is the number of attritions in the following age groups: 18-25, 26-35, 36-45, 46-55, and 55+?
Select Visualization Type:


Choose the "Stacked Bar Chart" .
Locate the "X-axis" as field well in your visualization 
Drag and drop the 'Age Group' field from table.
Locate the "Y-axis" as field well in your visualization
Drag and drop the 'AttritionCount'  and count then to find the required answer



Q6. What is the average age of the employees in the company?
   Create a new Card Visualization: From the visualization pane, select the "Card" visualization type.
Add age to the Field: Drag the 'age' field from your dataset's Fields list and drop it into the "Fields"  
Click on the 'age' field within the "Fields" well of the card visualization.
From the dropdown menu that appears, choose "Average" to find the average age of employee in a company

Q7. What is the average salary of the employees in the company?
 
   Create a new Card Visualization: From the visualization pane, select the "Card" visualization type.
Add MonthlyIncome to the Field: Drag the 'MonthlyIncome' field from your dataset's Fields list and drop it into the "Fields"  
Click on the 'MonthlyIncome' field within the "Fields" well of the card visualization.
From the dropdown menu that appears, choose "Average" to find the average age of employee in a company
 Q8. What is the average number of years employees have been in the company?

Create a new Card Visualization: From the visualization pane, select the "Card" visualization type.
Add yearatcompany to the Field: Drag the 'yearatcompany' field from your dataset's Fields list and drop it into the "Fields"  
Click on the 'yearatcompany' field within the "Fields" well of the card visualization.
From the dropdown menu that appears, choose "Average" to find the average lifespan of employee in company 

Q9.. Are there any noticeable patterns or trends in attrition based on Education Field, Age, Salary Slab, Years at Company, or Job Role?
      /

